Custom ssai (#193)
THEOplayer/documentation: theoplayer/how-to-guides/01-ads/13-custom-ssai-integration.md

# Custom Server Side Ad Insertion

THEOplayer provides a way to integrate with third-party advertisement providers,
and have them report their ads and ad-related events through the THEOplayer APIs.

## Android SDK

### Prerequisites

Your THEOplayer SDK needs to be on version 7.6.0 or higher.

### Integration ID

To make use of the custom server side ad insertion, first you need an integration ID which will identify the provided sources and ads to the specific ad provider.

> ### CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer

Reviewer: Move this *after* the `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory`. This is more of a "chore" that you have to do if you're using a `CustomSsaiDescription`.

It also helps to link to an example, e.g. from [our Yospace connector](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/blob/8.8.3/connectors/yospace/src/main/java/com/theoplayer/android/connector/yospace/YospaceSsaiDescription.kt#L84-L125).

Author: True, but from implementation flow point, you need to have the `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer` setup to receive the source in the handler.

Reviewer: It still feels backwards to me. Maybe first show how to subclass `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory` and `CustomSsaiDescription`, and then afterwards go through the "chore" of implementing a `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer`?

Register a CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer for the specific integration to be able to serialize/deserialize the
CustomSsaiDescription that will be provided in the SourceDescription.

```kotlin
CustomSsaiDescriptionRegistry.register("integrationID", object : CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer {

    /**
     * Reads a CustomSsaiDescription from the given JSON string.
     *
     * The customIntegration property in CustomSsaiDescription of the returned object
     * **must** match the integration with which this serializer was registered.
     */

>     override fun fromJson(json: String): CustomSsaiDescription {

Reviewer: Most of the time, you'll also want to subclass `CustomSsaiDescription`. See [YospaceSsaiDescription](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/blob/8.8.3/connectors/yospace/src/main/java/com/theoplayer/android/connector/yospace/YospaceSsaiDescription.kt#L17-L57) for an example.

    }

    /**
     * Writes the given CustomSsaiDescription as a JSON string.
     *
     * The returned JSON string **must** have a string property named `integration`
     * that contains the value of customIntegration property in CustomSsaiDescription.
     */
    override fun toJson(value: CustomSsaiDescription): String {

    }
})
```

### ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory

You would also need to register a ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory that will receive a ServerSideAdIntegrationController.
The controller can be used to create the THEOplayer AdBreak/Ad objects using the AdInit data.
Additionally, it can be used to keep the player's state up-to-date such as when an Ad begins or ends.

The ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory requires an implementation of the ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler interface.
The handler will provide few callbacks that can be overridden which allows you to setup/clear the integration as needed.

```kotlin
theoplayerView?.player?.ads?.registerServerSideIntegration("integrationID") { controller ->
    object : ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler {
        /**

>          * Handler which will be called when a new source is loaded into the player.

Reviewer: This is just repeating [our API documentation](https://www.theoplayer.com/docs/theoplayer/v8/api-reference/android/com/theoplayer/android/api/ads/ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler.html). That's not very useful.

For a how-to guide, we should try to show some actual example code, e.g. create an ad with `controller.createAd()`, start it with `beginAd()`, etc. We could also link to some real-world usages, such as the [Yospace connector](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/tree/master/connectors/yospace) and [Uplynk connector](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/tree/master/connectors/uplynk).

# Custom Server Side Ad Insertion

THEOplayer provides a way to integrate with third-party advertisement providers,
and have them report their ads and ad-related events through the THEOplayer APIs.

## Android SDK

### Prerequisites

Your THEOplayer SDK needs to be on version 7.6.0 or higher.

### Integration ID

To make use of the custom server side ad insertion, first you need an integration ID which will identify the provided sources and ads to the specific ad provider.

### CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer

> To play a source, inheriting the `CustomSsaiDescription` class is needed that will contain the necessary properties for the specific integration and be passed in the SourceDescription.

Reviewer: There's something wrong with this part: "...inheriting the `CustomSsaiDescription` class is needed that will...".

It also doesn't really explain why you would need a `CustomSsaiDescription` class in the first place. I'd start with that:
```suggestion
To hold the configuration parameters specific to your integration, you can create a new class that inherits from `CustomSsaiDescription`. This allows it to be set on a `TypedSource` through [`TypedSource.Builder.ssai()`](pathname:///theoplayer/v8/api-reference/android/com/theoplayer/android/api/source/TypedSource.Builder.html#ssai(com.theoplayer.android.api.source.ssai.SsaiDescription)).
```

Then, register a `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer` using the integration ID and provide a way to serialize/deserialize the new
`CustomSsaiDescription`.

> Below is an example of a YoSpace integration showing `YospaceSsaiDescription` extending `CustomSsaiDescription`:

Reviewer: Maybe also link to the original source code on GitHub?

```kotlin
data class YospaceSsaiDescription constructor(
    /**
     * The type of the requested stream.
     *
     * Default: [YospaceStreamType.LIVE]
     */
    val streamType: YospaceStreamType = YospaceStreamType.LIVE,
    /**
     * Custom properties to set when initializing the Yospace session.
     */
    val sessionProperties: Session.SessionProperties = Session.SessionProperties()
) : CustomSsaiDescription() {
    override val customIntegration = YospaceConnector.INTEGRATION_ID
}
```

And then, the implementation of the `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer` specific for YoSpace:

```kotlin
class YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer : CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer {
    override fun fromJson(json: String): YospaceSsaiDescription {
        return Json.decodeFromString(json)
    }

    override fun toJson(value: CustomSsaiDescription): String {
        return Json.encodeToString(value)
    }
}
```

> Finally, registering the `YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer`:

Reviewer: We should probably explain that this should ideally be registered during initialization of the `CustomSsaiDescription` class (e.g. inside an `init` block of its `companion object`), or at the very least right boefre registering the `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory`.

```kotlin
CustomSsaiDescriptionRegistry.register(YospaceConnector.INTEGRATION_ID, YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer())
```

> ### ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory

Reviewer: Add more code examples to this section.

# Custom Server Side Ad Insertion

THEOplayer provides a way to integrate with third-party advertisement providers,
and have them report their ads and ad-related events through the THEOplayer APIs.

## Android SDK

### Prerequisites

Your THEOplayer SDK needs to be on version 7.6.0 or higher.

### Integration ID

To make use of the custom server side ad insertion, first you need an integration ID which will identify the provided sources and ads to the specific ad provider.

### ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory

You would also need to register a `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory` that will receive a `ServerSideAdIntegrationController`.
The controller can be used to create the THEOplayer `AdBreak`/`Ad` objects using the `AdBreakInit`/`AdInit` data.
Additionally, it can be used to keep the player's state up-to-date such as when an ad begins or ends.

The `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory` requires an implementation of the `ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler` interface.
The handler will provide few callbacks that can be overridden which allows you to setup and clear the integration as needed.

> For a concrete implementation of a YoSpace Connector can be found [here](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/blob/master/connectors/yospace/src/main/java/com/theoplayer/android/connector/yospace/internal/YospaceAdIntegration.kt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A concrete implementation can be found [in the Yospace Connector](https://github.com/THEOplayer/android-connector/blob/master/connectors/yospace/src/main/java/com/theoplayer/android/connector/yospace/internal/YospaceAdIntegration.kt).
```

Meanwhile, an empty implementation would look like below. Details to follow.

```kotlin

> player.ads.registerServerSideIntegration("integrationID", object : ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory {

Reviewer: Nit-pick: I *think* this can be a closure?
```kotlin
player.ads.registerServerSideIntegration("integrationID") { controller ->
  return object : ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler { /* ... */ }
}

    override fun build(controller: ServerSideAdIntegrationController): ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler {
        return object : ServerSideAdIntegrationHandler {

            override suspend fun setSource(source: SourceDescription): SourceDescription {
                return super.setSource(source)
            }

            override fun skipAd(ad: Ad) {
                super.skipAd(ad)
            }

            override suspend fun resetSource() {
                super.resetSource()
            }

            override suspend fun destroy() {
                super.destroy()
            }
        }
    }
})
```

#### Setting a Source

When a new source is loaded into the player the `setSource(source: SourceDescription)` callback is triggered.

> It allows the integration to transform the source description, e.g. by calling an external service to replace the content URL (TypedSource.src),
> or by adding a fixed pre-roll linear ad to the list of ads (SourceDescription.ads).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows the integration to transform the source description, e.g. by calling an external service to replace the content URL (`TypedSource.src`),
or by adding a fixed pre-roll linear ad to the list of ads (`SourceDescription.ads`).
```

```kotlin
data class YospaceSsaiDescription constructor(
    /**
     * The type of the requested stream.
     *
     * Default: [YospaceStreamType.LIVE]
     */
    val streamType: YospaceStreamType = YospaceStreamType.LIVE,
    /**
     * Custom properties to set when initializing the Yospace session.
     */
    val sessionProperties: Session.SessionProperties = Session.SessionProperties()
) : CustomSsaiDescription() {
    override val customIntegration = YospaceConnector.INTEGRATION_ID
}
```

And then, the implementation of the `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer` specific for YoSpace:

```kotlin
class YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer : CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer {
    override fun fromJson(json: String): YospaceSsaiDescription {
        return Json.decodeFromString(json)
    }

    override fun toJson(value: CustomSsaiDescription): String {
        return Json.encodeToString(value)
    }
}
```

Finally, registering the `YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer`:

```kotlin
CustomSsaiDescriptionRegistry.register(YospaceConnector.INTEGRATION_ID, YospaceSsaiDescriptionSerializer())
```

> > **Note**: Registering the CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer should happen before registering the ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory.

Reviewer: This would look prettier with an [admonition](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions). 😉 

```suggestion
:::note

Registering the `CustomSsaiDescriptionSerializer` should happen before registering the `ServerSideAdIntegrationFactory`.

:::
```
